# Release Notes for 2021.08.00

This release includes major changes compared previous Freedom U SDK (FUSDK). The main changes include:

- Layers (`openembedded-core`, `meta-openemedded`, `meta-riscv`, `meta-clang`,  `meta-tensorflow-lite`) were updated to their latest revisions.
- Updated all files to a new override syntax ("`_`" separator character was replaced by "`:`"). There is no way to support old and new syntax at the same time.
- `xf86-video-amdgpu` was updated to 21.0.0.
- `mesa` was updated to 21.1.5.
- `binutils` was updated to 2.37.
- root password in the SiFive disk images is now stored in SHA512 encrypted form (the password itself did not change).
- `demo-coreip-xfce4` disk image gained new packages:
    + `xf86-video-modesetting`
    + `xf86-video-fbdev`
    + `perf-python`
- `demo-coreip-cli` disk image gained new packages:
    + `perf-python`
- `stress-ng` was updated to 0.13.0.
- `util-linux` sub-package `doc` gained support for alternatives to fix man page conflicts at install time.
- `libunwind` was enabled for riscv64. The recipe is set to non-release git commit [1527061fc5ce7cfd3911ac7ee8af04fdd4393477](https://github.com/libunwind/libunwind/commit/1527061fc5ce7cfd3911ac7ee8af04fdd4393477). The official support will land in v1.6.0 release (v1.6.0-rc1 is already available on their GitHub repository).
- `perf` `PACKAGECONFIG` was chaged to add `dwarf`, `libunwind`, `manpages`, `jvmti`, and `cap` options.
- `linux-mainline_5.13` was rebased on top of v5.13.9 kernel and gained compatibility with `qemuriscv64`, `qemuriscv64_b`, `qemuriscv64_b_zfh`, and  `qemuriscv64_v` machines.
- Kernel `defconfig` was modified to include VirtIO options required for QEMU machines:
```
CONFIG_VIRTIO_BLK=y
CONFIG_SCSI_VIRTIO=y
CONFIG_VIRTIO_NET=y
CONFIG_VIRTIO_CONSOLE=y
CONFIG_VIRTIO=y
CONFIG_VIRTIO_MENU=y
CONFIG_VIRTIO_PCI=y
CONFIG_VIRTIO_PCI_LEGACY=y
CONFIG_VIRTIO_BALLOON=y
CONFIG_VIRTIO_MEM=y
CONFIG_VIRTIO_INPUT=y
CONFIG_VIRTIO_MMIO=y
# CONFIG_VIRTIO_MMIO_CMDLINE_DEVICES is not set
CONFIG_VIRTIO_FS=y
CONFIG_CRYPTO_DEV_VIRTIO=y
CONFIG_NET_9P_VIRTIO=y
CONFIG_HW_RANDOM_VIRTIO=y
CONFIG_DRM_VIRTIO_GPU=y
CONFIG_RPMSG=y
# CONFIG_RPMSG_CHAR is not set
CONFIG_RPMSG_VIRTIO=y
```
- All QEMU machines (`qemuriscv64`, `qemuriscv64_b`, `qemuriscv64_b_zfh`, and `qemuriscv64_v`) now have `PREFERRED_PROVIDER_virtual/kernel` set to `linux-mainline`.

## Known Issues

1. Newer OE/Yocto buildtools could cause build issues for `nspr-native` package. Use `-r yocto-3.2_M2 -t 20200729` as described in README file if you are using OE/Yocto buildtools. See Yocto bug [#14112](https://bugzilla.yoctoproject.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14112)
2. We have found an issue with SanDisk "A2" microSD cards and thus do not recommend them.
3. If the desktop is unresponsive/frozen (i.e. the keyboard doesn't work or/and the mouse doesn't work, the clock is not updating, etc.) try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console.
4. If the keyboard or/and mouse is not responsive/frozen check if the input device is available under `libinput list-devices` and if events are registered by `libinput debug-events` in the console. If events are registered try the command from #6 above otherwise manually unplug and plug the keyboard or/and mouse.
5. If your desktop is very slow check Mesa OpenGL rendered (`glxinfo | grep OpenGL`). If it is `OpenGL renderer string: llvmpipe` restart the system. In rare cases Mesa might fallback to `llvmpipe`, but restart usually resolved the issue.
6. Restart is not implemented in software for HiFive Unmatched.
