# Release Notes for 2021.10.00

This release includes major changes compared previous Freedom U SDK (FUSDK) release. The notable changes include:

- `meta-sifive` was converted to a smaller layer containing the most important packages (e.g. OpenSBI, Linux kernel, U-Boot, etc). All other packages related to building a demo distribution are now in `freedom-u-sdk` repository (i.e. layer).
- Layers (`openembedded-core`, `meta-openemedded`, `meta-riscv`, `meta-clang`) were updated to their latest revisions.
- `stress-ng` was updated to 0.13.51.
- `linux-mainline_5.13` (Linux kernel) was updated to v5.13.19.
- `libunwind_git` was updated to `97d74d396264720e86d4b8455216f4a7b06a54af` commit.
- `qemu` RVV, RVB and Zfh patches were removed for now. These extensions are being finalized (currently in a public review stage). The patches as-is do not apply to the latest stable QEMU version available in `openembedded-core` layer. The next stable QEMU version should have some of these available out-of-the-box.
- `qemuriscv64_b`, `qemuriscv64_b_zfh` and `qemuriscv64_v` machines are not available (see above).
- `demo-coreip-xfce4` has VAAPI disabled for now as OE attempts to install packages with `*initial*` in their name, which should be excluded from the dependency list, but are not.
- `nghttp2` sub-packages `client` and `server` were removed from the main recipe as the content of them is empty.

## Known Issues

1. Newer OE/Yocto buildtools could cause build issues for `nspr-native` package. Use `-r yocto-3.2_M2 -t 20200729` as described in README file if you are using OE/Yocto buildtools. See Yocto bug [#14112](https://bugzilla.yoctoproject.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14112)
2. We have found an issue with SanDisk "A2" microSD cards and thus do not recommend them.
3. If the desktop is unresponsive/frozen (i.e. the keyboard doesn't work or/and the mouse doesn't work, the clock is not updating, etc.) try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console.
4. If the keyboard or/and mouse is not responsive/frozen check if the input device is available under `libinput list-devices` and if events are registered by `libinput debug-events` in the console. If events are registered try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console. Otherwise manually unplug and plug the keyboard or/and mouse.
5. If your desktop is very slow check Mesa OpenGL rendered (`glxinfo | grep OpenGL`). If it is `OpenGL renderer string: llvmpipe` restart the system. In rare cases Mesa might fallback to `llvmpipe`, but restart usually resolved the issue.
6. Restart is not implemented in software for HiFive Unmatched.
