# Release Notes for 2021.03.01

This release includes major changes compared previous Freedom Unleashed SDK and thus is **experimental** at this stage. The main changes include:

- OpenSBI was updated to support `gpio-poweroff` on HiFive Unmatched using SBI v0.1 legacy `sbi_shutdown()` call.
- U-Boot was updated for HiFive Unmatched:
	+ Modified device tree to include `gpio-poweroff` node needed for OpenSBI.
	+ Added reset for USB Hub, PCIe-USB bridge, ULPI device via GPIOs.
	+ Set default PWM state in SPL.
	+ Set D2 LED to yellow in SPL.
	+ Set D2 LED to purple in U-Boot proper.
	+ Set D2 LED to blue before `sysboot` is executed in the extlinux bootflow.
	+ Fix PWM command.
	+ Enable all FAN headers on by default.
	+ Add I2C into SPL.
	+ Add ability to check PCB revision.
	+ Set default clock to 1.2GHz
- Kernel was updated for HiFive Unmatched:
	+ Version updated to v5.11.10.
	+ Added `gpio-poweroff` node to the device tree.
	+ Added D12 (green) LED.
	+ Added D2 RGB LED.
	+ Disabled `CONFIG_HVC_RISCV_SBI` in defconfig.
	+ Disabled `CONFIG_SERIAL_EARLYCON_RISCV_SBI` in defconfig (kernel can handle `earlycon` directly).
	+ Removed `CONFIG_SIFIVE_BEU` from defconfig (not used, the driver is not included).
	+ Removed "A00" from the model name in device tree.
	+ Adjusted errata options based on a newer patchset version.
		* Enabled new `ERRATA_SIFIVE_CIP_1200` in defconfig.
- Added udev rules for HiFive Unmatched:
	+ Set D12 (green) LED to heartbeat trigger.
	+ Set D2 RGB LED to white color as the initial state.
- Added systemd unit and timer to set D2 RGB LED to green color 3 minutes after `getty.target` target.
- Replaced `earlycon=sbi` with `earlycon` within `extlinux.conf`.
- Removed `xscreensaver` package as it conflict with Xfce4 screen saver.
- Disabled `psplash` systemd unit by default (framebuffer in most cases is not available before it starts).
- Replaced `wireless-regdb` with `wireless-regdb-static` to allow kernel directly loading regulatory database without a user space daemon.

## Known Issues

1. Avoid overclocking SoC using CPUFreq if you are using HiFive Unleashed Expansion Board from Microsemi as this will hang the board. Hard reset will be required.
2. If Xfce4 desktop disk image is used with HiFive Unleashed Expansion Board and GPU then rebooting is required after the 1st boot.
3. Newer OE/Yocto buildtools could cause build issues for `nspr-native` package. Use `-r yocto-3.2_M2 -t 20200729` as described in README file if you are using OE/Yocto buildtools. See Yocto bug [#14112](https://bugzilla.yoctoproject.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14112)
4. We have found an issue with SanDisk "A2" microSD cards and thus do not recommend them.
5. Xfce4 file manager (Thunar) might crash due to a bug in exo related to "Icon View". We advice to switch to "List View" or "Compact View" under "View" menu.
6. If the desktop is unresponsive/frozen (i.e. the keyboard doesn't work or/and the mouse doesn't work, the clock is not updating, etc.) try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console.
7. If the keyboard or/and mouse is not responsive/frozen check if the input device is available under `libinput list-devices` and if events are registered by`libinput debug-events` in the console. If events are registered try the command from #6 above otherwise manually unplug and plug the keyboard or/and mouse.
8. If your desktop is very slow check Mesa OpenGL rendered (`glxinfo | grep OpenGL`). If it is `OpenGL renderer string: llvmpipe` restart the system. In rare cases Mesa might fallback to `llvmpipe`, but restart usually resolved the issue.
9. Restart is not implemented in software for HiFive Unmatched.
