# Release Notes for 2021.12.00

This release includes major changes compared previous Freedom-U-SDK (FUSDK) release. The notable changes include:

- Layers (`openembedded-core`, `meta-openemedded`, `meta-riscv`, `meta-clang`) and `bitbake` were updated to their latest commit.
- `demo-coreip-cli-initramfs` was moved to `meta-sifive` layer from `freedom-u-sdk` layer. `meta-sifive` layer contains MACHINE configuration files that directly refer to the initramfs recipe.
- `python3-tensorflow-lite-demo` was moved to `freedom-u-sdk` layer from `meta-sifive` layer. These only contain demo files.
- `stress-ng` was updated to v0.13.08.
- `nbd` was updated to 2.23.
- `vmtouch` package was added. It allows to load/check/remove files into/from memory cache.
- All `demo-coreip-*` disk images were updated to include `vmtouch` package.

## Known Issues

1. Newer OE/Yocto buildtools could cause build issues for `nspr-native` package. Use `-r yocto-3.2_M2 -t 20200729` as described in README file if you are using OE/Yocto buildtools. See Yocto bug [#14112](https://bugzilla.yoctoproject.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14112)
2. We have found an issue with SanDisk "A2" microSD cards and thus do not recommend them.
3. If the desktop is unresponsive/frozen (i.e. the keyboard doesn't work or/and the mouse doesn't work, the clock is not updating, etc.) try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console.
4. If the keyboard or/and mouse is not responsive/frozen check if the input device is available under `libinput list-devices` and if events are registered by `libinput debug-events` in the console. If events are registered try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console. Otherwise manually unplug and plug the keyboard or/and mouse.
5. If your desktop is very slow check Mesa OpenGL rendered (`glxinfo | grep OpenGL`). If it is `OpenGL renderer string: llvmpipe` restart the system. In rare cases Mesa might fallback to `llvmpipe`, but restart usually resolved the issue.
6. If NBD rootfs is used NetworkManager will not handle `eth0` interface. This leads to `resolv.conf` not being generated (DNS resolving doesn't work), and system time is not synchronized via NTP. The Internet connection itself is working.
7. If NBD rootfs is used NBD client will be terminated too early during systemd shutdown procedure leading to a few IO errors. This happens after the first sync  for all filesystems and block devices. Systemd sends SIGSTOP to all processes unconditionally and that's enough for NBD connection to be terminated. To avoid this issue one should need to use `--force/-f` with `poweroff` and similar commands. From systemctl man page: `If combined with --force, shutdown of all running services is skipped, however all processes are killed and all file systems are unmounted or mounted read-only, immediately followed by the powering off.`