# Release Notes for 2021.05.00

This release includes major changes compared previous Freedom U SDK (FUSDK). The main changes include:

- Layers (`openembedded-core`, `meta-openemedded`, `meta-riscv`, `meta-clang`) were updated to their latest revisions.
- `meta-clang` layer was updated and brought back LLVM/Clang 12.0.0.
- `lmsensors` now have supports for _tmp451_ temperature sensor on Unmatched.
- The critical temperature (_tmp451_) for Unmatched was changed to 85C.
- `meta-filesystems` layer (from `meta-openembedded`) is now included by default.
- `meta-tensorflow-lite` layer was added (this is a scalar version, doesn't include support for RVV).
- `linux-mainline_5.12` was added as a new kernel for Unleashed and Unmatched (common kernel and configuration).
- Notable kernel configuration changes:
    + More SATA controllers and features were enabled.
    + `CONFIG_STRICT_DEVMEM` and `CONFIG_IO_STRICT_DEVMEM` were enabled.
    + _XFS_ file system support was added.
    + _Btrfs_ file system support was added.
    + `CONFIG_STRICT_KERNEL_RWX` and `CONFIG_STRICT_MODULE_RWX` were enabled.
    + NVMe hwmon driver was enabled (temperatures will be reported by `lmsensors`).
    + `CONFIG_STACKPROTECTOR` and `CONFIG_STACKPROTECTOR_PER_TASK` were enabled.
- Support for HiFive Unleashed Expansion Board from Microsemi was removed.
- New packages added to `demo-coreip-{cli,xfce4}` disk images:
    + `gdbserver`
    + `exfat-utils`
    + `xfsdump`
    + `xfsprogs`
    + `xfsprogs-fsck`
    + `xfsprogs-mkfs`
    + `xfsprogs-repair`
    + `btrfs-tools`
    + `python3-tensorflow-lite`
    + `python3-tensorflow-lite-demo-doc`
- Disabled `earlycon`  via SBI for Unleashed. This is handled directly by the kernel as on Unmatched.
- This is the first released compiled with GCC 11.
- `stress-ng` was updated to 0.12.8.


## Known Issues

1. Newer OE/Yocto buildtools could cause build issues for `nspr-native` package. Use `-r yocto-3.2_M2 -t 20200729` as described in README file if you are using OE/Yocto buildtools. See Yocto bug [#14112](https://bugzilla.yoctoproject.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14112)
2. We have found an issue with SanDisk "A2" microSD cards and thus do not recommend them.
3. If the desktop is unresponsive/frozen (i.e. the keyboard doesn't work or/and the mouse doesn't work, the clock is not updating, etc.) try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console.
4. If the keyboard or/and mouse is not responsive/frozen check if the input device is available under `libinput list-devices` and if events are registered by `libinput debug-events` in the console. If events are registered try the command from #6 above otherwise manually unplug and plug the keyboard or/and mouse.
5. If your desktop is very slow check Mesa OpenGL rendered (`glxinfo | grep OpenGL`). If it is `OpenGL renderer string: llvmpipe` restart the system. In rare cases Mesa might fallback to `llvmpipe`, but restart usually resolved the issue.
6. Restart is not implemented in software for HiFive Unmatched.
