# Release Notes for 2021.03

This release includes major changes compared previous Freedom Unleashed SDK and thus is **experimental** at this stage. The main changes include:

- All layers (openembedded-core, meta-openemedded, meta-riscv, meta-clang) were updated to their latest revisions.
- **unmatched** MACHINE was updated to support 16GB (rev3) variant. Older versions of unmatched (i.e., pre-production) should use 2021.02.00 release.
- stress-ng was updated to 0.12.05.
- Kernel was updated to v5.11.5.
- U-Boot was updated to add PWM command, I2C EEPROM and 16GB DDR parameters for Unmatched (rev3).
- rngd (from rng-tools) daemon was disabled by default.
- libinput was updated to 1.17.0.
- New packages were added in CLI and Xfce4 disk images:
	+ cpupower
	+ libubootenv-bin
	+ u-boot-tools-mkimage
	+ u-boot-tools-mkenvimage
- New packages were added in Xfce4 disk images:
	+ xeyes
	+ xev
	+ xwininfo
	+ xvinfo
	+ x11perf
- Fixed a bug where OpenSBI binaries might not be deployed before U-Boot starts building.

## Known Issues

1. Avoid overclocking SoC using CPUFreq if you are using HiFive Unleashed Expansion Board from Microsemi as this will hang the board. Hard reset will be required.

2. If Xfce4 desktop disk image is used with HiFive Unleashed Expansion Board and GPU then rebooting is required after the 1st boot.

3. Newer OE/Yocto buildtools could cause build issues for `nspr-native` package. Use `-r yocto-3.2_M2 -t 20200729` as described in README file if you are using OE/Yocto buildtools. See Yocto bug [#14112](https://bugzilla.yoctoproject.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14112)

4. We have found an issue with SanDisk "A2" microSD cards and thus do not recommend them.
