# Release Notes for 2021.11.00

This release includes major changes compared previous Freedom-U-SDK (FUSDK) release. The notable changes include:

- `libunwind` was updated to the final v.1.6.0 release (the first one to support riscv64).
- `opensbi` was updated to `22d556d26809775e2ac19251e5df9075434ee66e` commit. This allows SiFive HiFive Unmatched to use SBI SRST (System Reset) extension in the kernel to reset the board. This is only a partial reset, but from the user point of view it will acts as a normal reset. The output rails will go down and up at OTP voltages. The other DA9063 settings will not be affected.
    + A better approach is being tested by the community using RTC wake-up.
- `xserver-xorg` was updated to 21.1.1.
- `xf86-video-ati` now includes a backport from upstream to fix compilation errors with a new `xserver-xorg`.
- `demo-coreip-cli-initramfs` new recipe was introduced. This initramfs stage includes NBD (Network Block Device) client and support for NBD rootfs. This is experimental feature and is currently available only for SiFive HiFive Unmatched board.
    + To use this new feature open `extlinux.conf` configuration file in `/boot` partition and change `append` line to `append ip=dhcp root=/dev/nbd0 rw nbdroot=<server_ip_address>:<export_name> nbdport=10809 console=ttySIF0,115200 earlycon` Note that depending on the NBD server used and it's configuration `<export_name>` might be ignored by the NBD server.
    + `nbdkit` could be used for the NBD server. The example: `sudo nbdkit -f --verbose --threads 128 --filter=cow --filter=partition --filter=xz file demo-coreip-xfce4-unmatched-<..>.rootfs.wic.xz partition=4`. This would expose the 4th partition from a compressed disk image with a cow (copy-on-write) layer on top to make it writable. Note that in this particular case `<export_name>` value is ignored by `nbdkit` server. If performance is important uncompress disk image before sharing it via NBD server.
- `kernel-devsrc` package was removed from the disk images. The package does not work wih the kernel version used by FUSDK.
- `chronyc` package was added as CLI front-end for chrony daemon.
- `dtc-staticdev` package was removed as it is empty.
- `systemd` PACKAGECONFIG was modified to remove `resolved` and `nss-resolve`. These functions are convered by NetworkManager.
- `GDB` was updated to 11.1.
- `u-boot` was rebased to v2021.10.
- `linux-mainline_5.13` was updated with two additional patches:
    + SBI SRST support for SiFive HiFive Unmatched reset support.
    + irqchip/sifive-plic fix backport. There was case there only the first interrupt was handled and following interrupts were not delivered.

## Known Issues

1. Newer OE/Yocto buildtools could cause build issues for `nspr-native` package. Use `-r yocto-3.2_M2 -t 20200729` as described in README file if you are using OE/Yocto buildtools. See Yocto bug [#14112](https://bugzilla.yoctoproject.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14112)
2. We have found an issue with SanDisk "A2" microSD cards and thus do not recommend them.
3. If the desktop is unresponsive/frozen (i.e. the keyboard doesn't work or/and the mouse doesn't work, the clock is not updating, etc.) try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console.
4. If the keyboard or/and mouse is not responsive/frozen check if the input device is available under `libinput list-devices` and if events are registered by `libinput debug-events` in the console. If events are registered try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console. Otherwise manually unplug and plug the keyboard or/and mouse.
5. If your desktop is very slow check Mesa OpenGL rendered (`glxinfo | grep OpenGL`). If it is `OpenGL renderer string: llvmpipe` restart the system. In rare cases Mesa might fallback to `llvmpipe`, but restart usually resolved the issue.
6. If NBD rootfs is used NetworkManager will not handle `eth0` interface. This leads to `resolv.conf` not being generated (DNS resolving doesn't work), and system time is not synchronized via NTP. The Internet connection itself is working.
7. If NBD rootfs is used NBD client will be terminated too early during systemd shutdown procedure leading to a few IO errors. This happens after the first sync  for all filesystems and block devices.
