# Release Notes for 2021.07.00

This release includes major changes compared previous Freedom U SDK (FUSDK). The main changes include:

- Layers (`openembedded-core`, `meta-openemedded`, `meta-riscv`, `meta-clang`,  `meta-tensorflow-lite`) were updated to their latest revisions.
- `stress-ng` was updated to 0.12.12.
- `rng-tools` was rebased to 6.13.
- `nfs-utils` was rebased to 2.5.4.
- `man-pages` was rebased to 5.12.
- `linux-mainline_5.12` was rebased to v5.12.18.
- `u-boot` was rebased to v2021.07 (major change):
    + Upstream U-Boot v2021.07 release is the first one to provide the initial (not full) Unmatched support.
- Added missing `unmatched-udev-rules` and `unmatched-systemd-units` packages into `demo-coreip-cli` disk image.
- Changed `UBOOT_MACHINE` for Unmatched machine to `sifive_unmatched_defconfig` (the new upstream name).
- Changed `UBOOT_MACHINE` for Unleashed machine to `sifive_unleashed_defconfig` (the new upstream name).
- `qemu-native`, `qemu-system-native`, `qemu` gained `pmem` PACKAGECONFIG option to solve compilation issues on some host system configurations.
- `gdb` now includes backport of [symtab/27999](https://sourceware.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=27999) bug fix for riscv64.
- `udev-extraconf` was added back.


## Known Issues

1. Newer OE/Yocto buildtools could cause build issues for `nspr-native` package. Use `-r yocto-3.2_M2 -t 20200729` as described in README file if you are using OE/Yocto buildtools. See Yocto bug [#14112](https://bugzilla.yoctoproject.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14112)
2. We have found an issue with SanDisk "A2" microSD cards and thus do not recommend them.
3. If the desktop is unresponsive/frozen (i.e. the keyboard doesn't work or/and the mouse doesn't work, the clock is not updating, etc.) try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console.
4. If the keyboard or/and mouse is not responsive/frozen check if the input device is available under `libinput list-devices` and if events are registered by `libinput debug-events` in the console. If events are registered try the command from #6 above otherwise manually unplug and plug the keyboard or/and mouse.
5. If your desktop is very slow check Mesa OpenGL rendered (`glxinfo | grep OpenGL`). If it is `OpenGL renderer string: llvmpipe` restart the system. In rare cases Mesa might fallback to `llvmpipe`, but restart usually resolved the issue.
6. Restart is not implemented in software for HiFive Unmatched.
