# Release Notes for 2021.06.00

This release includes major changes compared previous Freedom U SDK (FUSDK). The main changes include:

- Layers (`openembedded-core`, `meta-openemedded`, `meta-riscv`, `meta-clang`) were updated to their latest revisions.
- `stress-ng` was updated to 0.12.10.
- `mesa` was updated to 21.1.2.
- `udev-extraconf` was removed.
    + Issues were reported if the system was booted from microSD or NVMe, and USB storage device was auto-mounted. This resulted in random errors related to storage. Manual mounting works fine. This is a temporary removal until the issue can be understood.
- Enabled `spell` PACKAGECONFIG for `mousepad` to avoid warnings at the build time.
- `opensbi_0.9` from `openembedded-core` layer was added to BBMASK to avoid BitBake parsing issues.
- New QEMU MACHINE targets were added (see below). These MACHINE options do not currently affect how packages or/and disk images are built. The toolchain might not provide support for these extensions yet. Currently this only allows to boot into QEMU virt machine with particular extensions (not ratified) enabled.
    + `qemuriscv64_b` - RISCV-V 64-bit (RV64GC) with B extension (not ratified yet) for QEMU virt machine.
    + `qemuriscv64_b_zfh`- RISC-V-64-bit (RV64GC) with B and Zfh extensions (both not ratified yet) for QEMU virt machine.
    + `qemuriscv64_v`- RISC-V 64-bit (RV64GC) with V extension (not ratified yet) for QEMU virt machine.


## Known Issues

1. Newer OE/Yocto buildtools could cause build issues for `nspr-native` package. Use `-r yocto-3.2_M2 -t 20200729` as described in README file if you are using OE/Yocto buildtools. See Yocto bug [#14112](https://bugzilla.yoctoproject.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14112)
2. We have found an issue with SanDisk "A2" microSD cards and thus do not recommend them.
3. If the desktop is unresponsive/frozen (i.e. the keyboard doesn't work or/and the mouse doesn't work, the clock is not updating, etc.) try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console.
4. If the keyboard or/and mouse is not responsive/frozen check if the input device is available under `libinput list-devices` and if events are registered by `libinput debug-events` in the console. If events are registered try the command from #6 above otherwise manually unplug and plug the keyboard or/and mouse.
5. If your desktop is very slow check Mesa OpenGL rendered (`glxinfo | grep OpenGL`). If it is `OpenGL renderer string: llvmpipe` restart the system. In rare cases Mesa might fallback to `llvmpipe`, but restart usually resolved the issue.
6. Restart is not implemented in software for HiFive Unmatched.
