# Release Notes for 2021.04

This release includes major changes compared previous Freedom U SDK and thus is **experimental** at this stage. The main changes include:

- Layers (`openembedded-core`, `meta-openemedded`, `meta-riscv`) were updated to their latest revisions.
- `meta-clang` layer was reverted back to what we had in `meta-sifive` 2021.02.00 release as LLVM/Clang cross compiler had issues locating libraries for  riscv64.
- `meta-sifive` layer compatibility was switched from `gatesgarth` to `hardknott` release.
- `mesa` was updated to 21.0.1.
- `linux-mainline_5.11` kernel was updated to v5.11.14 for HiFive Unmatched.
- `tree` package was added for CLI and Xfce4 disk images.
- `xdotool` package was added to Xfce4 disk images.
- `stress-ng` was updated to 0.12.06.


## Known Issues

1. Avoid overclocking SoC using CPUFreq if you are using HiFive Unleashed Expansion Board from Microsemi as this will hang the board. Hard reset will be required.
2. If Xfce4 desktop disk image is used with HiFive Unleashed Expansion Board and GPU then rebooting is required after the 1st boot.
3. Newer OE/Yocto buildtools could cause build issues for `nspr-native` package. Use `-r yocto-3.2_M2 -t 20200729` as described in README file if you are using OE/Yocto buildtools. See Yocto bug [#14112](https://bugzilla.yoctoproject.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14112)
4. We have found an issue with SanDisk "A2" microSD cards and thus do not recommend them.
5. Xfce4 file manager (Thunar) might crash due to a bug in exo related to "Icon View". We advice to switch to "List View" or "Compact View" under "View" menu.
6. If the desktop is unresponsive/frozen (i.e. the keyboard doesn't work or/and the mouse doesn't work, the clock is not updating, etc.) try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console.
7. If the keyboard or/and mouse is not responsive/frozen check if the input device is available under `libinput list-devices` and if events are registered by `libinput debug-events` in the console. If events are registered try the command from #6 above otherwise manually unplug and plug the keyboard or/and mouse.
8. If your desktop is very slow check Mesa OpenGL rendered (`glxinfo | grep OpenGL`). If it is `OpenGL renderer string: llvmpipe` restart the system. In rare cases Mesa might fallback to `llvmpipe`, but restart usually resolved the issue.
9. Restart is not implemented in software for HiFive Unmatched.
