# Release Notes for 2022.03.00

This release includes major changes compared previous Freedom-U-SDK (FUSDK) release. The notable changes include:

- Layers (`openembedded-core`, `meta-openemedded`, `meta-riscv`, `meta-clang`) and `bitbake` were updated to their latest commit.
- `stress-ng` was updated to 0.13.12.
- `mesa` local copy was removed and replaced with a bbappend file.
- Removed python backports (`python3-distutils-extra`, `python3-ptyprocess`, `python3-pybind11`, `xfce4-whiskermenu-plugin`) added in 2022.02.00. These are already part of `openembedded-core` and `meta-openembedded` layers.
- `nbd` was updated to 3.24.
- `nghttp2` was rebased to 1.47.0.
- `openssh` was rebased to 8.9.p1.

## Known Issues

1. Newer OE/Yocto buildtools could cause build issues for `nspr-native` package. Use `-r yocto-3.2_M2 -t 20200729` as described in README file if you are using OE/Yocto buildtools. See Yocto bug [#14112](https://bugzilla.yoctoproject.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14112)
2. We have found an issue with SanDisk "A2" microSD cards and thus do not recommend them.
3. If the desktop is unresponsive/frozen (i.e. the keyboard doesn't work or/and the mouse doesn't work, the clock is not updating, etc.) try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console.
4. If the keyboard or/and mouse is not responsive/frozen check if the input device is available under `libinput list-devices` and if events are registered by `libinput debug-events` in the console. If events are registered try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console. Otherwise manually unplug and plug the keyboard or/and mouse.
5. If your desktop is very slow check Mesa OpenGL rendered (`glxinfo | grep OpenGL`). If it is `OpenGL renderer string: llvmpipe` restart the system. In rare cases Mesa might fallback to `llvmpipe`, but restart usually resolved the issue.
6. If NBD rootfs is used NetworkManager will not handle `eth0` interface. This leads to `resolv.conf` not being generated (DNS resolving doesn't work), and system time is not synchronized via NTP. The Internet connection itself is working.