# Release Notes for 2022.05.00

This release includes major changes compared previous Freedom-U-SDK (FUSDK) release. The notable changes include:

- Layers (`openembedded-core`, `meta-openemedded`, `meta-riscv`, `meta-clang`) and `bitbake` were updated to their latest commit.
- `setup.sh`: Add features to conserve disk space during the build
- `quake2`: Fix QA obsolete-license
- `unmatched-systemd-units`: Apply some improvements to reduce the build duration
- `unleashed-udev-rules`: Apply some improvements to reduce the build duration
- `python3-tensorflow-lite-demo`: Apply some improvements to reduce the build duration
- `stress-ng`: Use the recipe provided by the openembedded-core layer
- `numactl`: Remove the bbappend because LDFLAGS have been fixed in the recipe
- `mesa`: Fix QA installed-vs-shipped
- `systemtap`: Remove the bbappend because the compatibility has been fixed in the recipe
- `bluze5`: Remove  the bbappend because the patch is already applied in the recipe
- `pcimem`: Remove the bbappend because the compatibility has been fixed in the recipe
- `packagegroup-core-tools-profile`: Remove the bbappend because LTTng and babeltrace now provide risc support.
- `initramfs-framework`: Clean up the recipe
- `util-linux`: Remove the bbappend because ALTERNATIVE_LINK_NAME are now defined in the recipe.
- `openssh`: Bump to 9.0p1
- `makedevs`: Fix a license build issue
- `devmem2`: Use the github repository
- Update manifest file
- Add .gitignore
- `opensbi ` was updated to `fab0379bb60d6e177018b53f07718b69ba34948d` commit.
- `unmatched.conf`: Make INITRAMFS_IMAGE and INITRAMFS_IMAGE_BUNDLE weak
- `perf`: Use the recipe provided by the openembedded-core layer
- `libunwind`: Use the recipe provided by the openembedded-core layer
- `freedom-u540.conf`: Drop setting KERNEL_DEVICETREE
- `unmatched.conf`: Drop setting KERNEL_DEVICETREE

## Known Issues

1. Newer OE/Yocto buildtools could cause build issues for `nspr-native` package. Use `-r yocto-3.2_M2 -t 20200729` as described in README file if you are using OE/Yocto buildtools. See Yocto bug [#14112](https://bugzilla.yoctoproject.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14112)
2. We have found an issue with SanDisk "A2" microSD cards and thus do not recommend them.
3. If the desktop is unresponsive/frozen (i.e. the keyboard doesn't work or/and the mouse doesn't work, the clock is not updating, etc.) try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console.
4. If the keyboard or/and mouse is not responsive/frozen check if the input device is available under `libinput list-devices` and if events are registered by `libinput debug-events` in the console. If events are registered try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console. Otherwise manually unplug and plug the keyboard or/and mouse.
5. If your desktop is very slow check Mesa OpenGL rendered (`glxinfo | grep OpenGL`). If it is `OpenGL renderer string: llvmpipe` restart the system. In rare cases Mesa might fallback to `llvmpipe`, but restart usually resolved the issue.
6. If NBD rootfs is used NetworkManager will not handle `eth0` interface. This leads to `resolv.conf` not being generated (DNS resolving doesn't work), and system time is not synchronized via NTP. The Internet connection itself is working.