# Release Notes for 2022.02.00

This release includes major changes compared previous Freedom-U-SDK (FUSDK) release. The notable changes include:

- Layers (`openembedded-core`, `meta-openemedded`, `meta-riscv`, `meta-clang`) and `bitbake` were updated to their latest commit.
- `freedom-u-sdk` and `meta-sifive` layers compatibility was updated from `honister` to `kirkstone`.
- `meta-tensorflow-lite` layer removed until build issues are resolved.
- `opensbi_git ` was updated to `4998a712b2ab504eff306110879ee05af6050177` commit.
- `u-boot` was updated to 2022.01.
- `libunwind` was updated to 1.6.2.
- `linux-mainline_5.13` includes a new patch to support binutils 2.38 release.
- `perf-doc` subpackage was removed due to issues with post installation script blocking rootfs generation.
- `nfs-utils` were rebased for 2.6.1.
- `vmtouch_git` LICENSE was changed to `BSD-3-Clause` to match SPDX format.
- `util-linux` was rebased to 2.37.4.
- `rng-tools` were rebased to  6.15.
- `mesa` was updated to 21.3.6.
- `stress-ng` was updated to V0.13.11.
- `catfish`, `python3-distutils-extra`, `python3-ptyprocess`, `python3-pybind11`, `xfce4-whiskermenu-plugin` backported from openembedded-core next to solve python packaging issues.
- `python3-tensorflow-lite` and `python3-tensorflow-lite-demo-doc` were temporarily removed.
- `image-prelink` was removed from `USER_CLASSES` was it's no longer supported with `glibc` 2.35.
- `systemd` was updated to 250.3.
- `binutils` was updated to 2.38.
- `qemu` was updated to 6.2.0.
- `strace` was updated to 5.16.
- `gdb` was updated to 11.1.
- `clang` updated to 14.0.0 (`8937ecf4698c9283c92c35b65e5b97e6e0acf869`).

## Known Issues

1. Newer OE/Yocto buildtools could cause build issues for `nspr-native` package. Use `-r yocto-3.2_M2 -t 20200729` as described in README file if you are using OE/Yocto buildtools. See Yocto bug [#14112](https://bugzilla.yoctoproject.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14112)
2. We have found an issue with SanDisk "A2" microSD cards and thus do not recommend them.
3. If the desktop is unresponsive/frozen (i.e. the keyboard doesn't work or/and the mouse doesn't work, the clock is not updating, etc.) try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console.
4. If the keyboard or/and mouse is not responsive/frozen check if the input device is available under `libinput list-devices` and if events are registered by `libinput debug-events` in the console. If events are registered try `systemctl restart display-manager` from the serial console. Otherwise manually unplug and plug the keyboard or/and mouse.
5. If your desktop is very slow check Mesa OpenGL rendered (`glxinfo | grep OpenGL`). If it is `OpenGL renderer string: llvmpipe` restart the system. In rare cases Mesa might fallback to `llvmpipe`, but restart usually resolved the issue.
6. If NBD rootfs is used NetworkManager will not handle `eth0` interface. This leads to `resolv.conf` not being generated (DNS resolving doesn't work), and system time is not synchronized via NTP. The Internet connection itself is working.