# Release Notes for 2024.09.00-HFP550

## 2024.09.00-HFP550

This is the first release for the HiFive Premier P550 board

- Support for new MACHINE ("hifive-premier-p550") for HiFive Premier P550 boards. This is the only machine supported in this release.
- U-Boot version is `2024.01`.
- OpenSBI version is `1.4`.
- Kernel version is `6.6.21`.
- Defined new DISTRO_NAME, DISTRO_VERSION and DISTRO_CODENAME.
- Only Xfce4 desktop images are supported.
- `eMMC` and `SD` Card are supported as boot media.
- The following images in DEPLOYDIR are required for flashing on the board.
    + `bootloader_ddr5_secboot.bin` - Bootchain image which comprises of DDR firware, second boot firmware, U-Boot and OpenSBI.
    + `boot.vfat` - vfat image for kernel. This includes kernel Image, DTB and extlinux.
    + `demo-coreip-xfce4-hifive-premier-p550.rootfs.ext4.xz` - Compressed rootfs image for eMMC.
    + `demo-coreip-xfce4-hifive-premier-p550.rootfs.wic.xz` - Compressed image for SD card.
- Irrespective of boot media, bootchain is always flashed to SPI Flash.
- `EsBurnTool` is the tool required to flash images to eMMC. This tool can be found over [tools](https://github.com/sifive/hifive-premier-p550-tools) repository.
- eMMC `boot` and `root` partitions can also be flashed with `fastboot` tool.
- Bootable SD Card can be prepared by writing the .wic image using `dd` command.


## Known Issues

- Occassional bus error reported from memory region 0x2000_0000-0x3FFF_FFFF. These will addressed in the subsequent releases.
- On executing a reboot command with external GFX connected, sometimes, the board reboot hangs.
- Bus error reported from UART driver at startup. This will be addressed in the subsequent releases.
